README.md, before:

# Single File Tools (SFT)

This repository collects a couple of simple utilities written in different
languages for varying use cases. The single common factor is an implementation
comprising just one file. These single file tools are usually written in an
interpreted (or scripting) language.

All single file tools are intended to be usable without installation. I
usually check out this repository on every machine I work with. If one of
the tools needs to be started from a specific directory that is a bug.

## License

All tools contain licensing information in the file. In general, every tool
is published under a free software license. Additionally, this collection
is available under the
[GNU General Public License](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html)
version 3 or later.

## The Tools

Some of the single file tools have been published already using a dedicated
web page. In that case a link to the web page is provided.

* `capture.sh` - capture traffic on an interface for a given duration with tcpdump
* `checkzips` - check ZIP files for errors
* `create_ipv6_ULA_global_prefix_random.sh` - create a random global prefix for IPv6 ULA addresses using `/dev/random`
* `create_ipv6_ULA_global_prefix_rfc4193.sh` - create a random global prefix for
IPv6 ULA addresses using a deterministic algorithm based on [RFC 4193 section 3.2.2](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4193#section-3.2.2)
* `dvdmovie` - play the main movie from a video DVD with [MPlayer](http://www.mplayerhq.hu/) ([web page](https://www.unix-ag.uni-kl.de/~auerswal/dvdmovie/))
* `ext_ip` - print externally visible IPv4 and IPv6 addresses
* `ffdl` - simple download helper for Firefox
* `foreachpam` - invoke program for each image in a PAM stream ([web page](https://www.unix-ag.uni-kl.de/~auerswal/netpbm/index.html))
* `foreachpnm` - invoke program for each image in a PNM stream ([web page](https://www.unix-ag.uni-kl.de/~auerswal/netpbm/index.html))
* `hide_passwords_enterasys.sed` - mask passwords in Enterasys (now Extreme) EOS configuration (available on my [Notes on Enterasys Networks Equipment](https://www.unix-ag.uni-kl.de/~auerswal/enterasys/#hide_passwords) web page)
* `ifstats` - print interface statistics (counters) on Linux
* `interface_status` - query interface status of network devices via SNMP
* `ipcalc` - simple replacement for [ipcalc](http://jodies.de/ipcalc)
* `macfmt` - convert MAC address formats ([web page](https://www.unix-ag.uni-kl.de/~auerswal/macfmt/))
* `net2ips` - print host addresses of an IPv4 network (uses ipcalc)
* `netio-kshell-dos` - demonstrate TCP session cleanup bug ([web page](https://www.unix-ag.uni-kl.de/~auerswal/netio-kshell-bug/))
* `nfoview` - view NFO files on GNU/Linux
* `ping_scan` - ping many hosts at once ([web page](https://www.unix-ag.uni-kl.de/~auerswal/ping_scan/))
* `ping_wrapper` - wrapper around iputils ping for use with `ping_scan` ([web page](https://www.unix-ag.uni-kl.de/~auerswal/ping_scan/))
* `pmtud` - Path MTU discovery to given IP / HOSTNAME using ICMP Echo Request probes
* `pnmcat-stream` - wrapper for [pnmcat](http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pnmcat.html) to work with image streams ([web page](https://www.unix-ag.uni-kl.de/~auerswal/netpbm/index.html))
* `priv_pass.py` - calculate ROMMON priv password for (some) Cisco routers
* `renumber` - renumber a set of discontiguously numbered files
* `rfc-reader` - read IETF RFCs on GNU/Linux ([web page](https://www.unix-ag.uni-kl.de/~auerswal/rfc-reader/))
* `section` - print all lines matching a regular expression, and the following indented section (inspired by the Cisco IOS output modifier of the same name)
* `section.pl` - Perl version of the above `section` script, for use on systems without awk, but Perl, such as some Cisco IOS XR versions
* `section.py` - Python version of the above `section` script, for use on systems without awk, but Python
* `slatel` - strip leading and trailing empty lines
* `total_video_duration` - print total run time of given video files (uses `ffprobe` from [FFmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/))
* `vevent_dump` - print a somewhat readable version of the essential informationen inside an iCalendar (.ics) file to STDOUT (best effort only, not even trying to parse the format...)

## Junkcode

If you do not find what you are looking for in this repository, you might
find example code in my [junkcode](https://github.com/auerswal/junkcode/)
repository.

Commit message:

README.md: add info about documentation

README.md, after:

# Single File Tools (SFT)

This repository collects a couple of simple utilities written in different
languages for varying use cases. The single common factor is an implementation
comprising just one file. These single file tools are usually written in an
interpreted (or scripting) language.

All single file tools are intended to be usable without installation. I
usually check out this repository on every machine I work with. If one of
the tools needs to be started from a specific directory that is a bug.

## License

All tools contain licensing information in the file. In general, every tool
is published under a free software license. Additionally, this collection
is available under the
[GNU General Public License](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html)
version 3 or later.

## The Tools

Some of the single file tools have been published already using a dedicated
web page. In that case a link to the web page is provided.

### Documentation

If a dedicated web page for a single file tool exists, it contains
documentation for the specific tool. Additionally, since all tools
are comprised of a single file, their documentation, as far as it
exists, is part of the program itself.

All tools are scripts for some interpreter, thus they can be viewed with
any text viewer, e.g., a pager or an editor. Usually the documentation
is included as a comment after the copyright statement.

Sometimes the tool supports a `-h` option to show help.

Sometimes, if the tool is not a filter, it prints out a help screen if
called without any operands (neither options nor arguments).

### List of Single File Tools

* `capture.sh` - capture traffic on an interface for a given duration with tcpdump
* `checkzips` - check ZIP files for errors
* `create_ipv6_ULA_global_prefix_random.sh` - create a random global prefix for IPv6 ULA addresses using `/dev/random`
* `create_ipv6_ULA_global_prefix_rfc4193.sh` - create a random global prefix for
IPv6 ULA addresses using a deterministic algorithm based on [RFC 4193 section 3.2.2](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4193#section-3.2.2)
* `dvdmovie` - play the main movie from a video DVD with [MPlayer](http://www.mplayerhq.hu/) ([web page](https://www.unix-ag.uni-kl.de/~auerswal/dvdmovie/))
* `ext_ip` - print externally visible IPv4 and IPv6 addresses
* `ffdl` - simple download helper for Firefox
* `foreachpam` - invoke program for each image in a PAM stream ([web page](https://www.unix-ag.uni-kl.de/~auerswal/netpbm/index.html))
* `foreachpnm` - invoke program for each image in a PNM stream ([web page](https://www.unix-ag.uni-kl.de/~auerswal/netpbm/index.html))
* `hide_passwords_enterasys.sed` - mask passwords in Enterasys (now Extreme) EOS configuration (available on my [Notes on Enterasys Networks Equipment](https://www.unix-ag.uni-kl.de/~auerswal/enterasys/#hide_passwords) web page)
* `ifstats` - print interface statistics (counters) on Linux
* `interface_status` - query interface status of network devices via SNMP
* `ipcalc` - simple replacement for [ipcalc](http://jodies.de/ipcalc)
* `macfmt` - convert MAC address formats ([web page](https://www.unix-ag.uni-kl.de/~auerswal/macfmt/))
* `net2ips` - print host addresses of an IPv4 network (uses ipcalc)
* `netio-kshell-dos` - demonstrate TCP session cleanup bug ([web page](https://www.unix-ag.uni-kl.de/~auerswal/netio-kshell-bug/))
* `nfoview` - view NFO files on GNU/Linux
* `ping_scan` - ping many hosts at once ([web page](https://www.unix-ag.uni-kl.de/~auerswal/ping_scan/))
* `ping_wrapper` - wrapper around iputils ping for use with `ping_scan` ([web page](https://www.unix-ag.uni-kl.de/~auerswal/ping_scan/))
* `pmtud` - Path MTU discovery to given IP / HOSTNAME using ICMP Echo Request probes
* `pnmcat-stream` - wrapper for [pnmcat](http://netpbm.sourceforge.net/doc/pnmcat.html) to work with image streams ([web page](https://www.unix-ag.uni-kl.de/~auerswal/netpbm/index.html))
* `priv_pass.py` - calculate ROMMON priv password for (some) Cisco routers
* `renumber` - renumber a set of discontiguously numbered files
* `rfc-reader` - read IETF RFCs on GNU/Linux ([web page](https://www.unix-ag.uni-kl.de/~auerswal/rfc-reader/))
* `section` - print all lines matching a regular expression, and the following indented section (inspired by the Cisco IOS output modifier of the same name)
* `section.pl` - Perl version of the above `section` script, for use on systems without awk, but Perl, such as some Cisco IOS XR versions
* `section.py` - Python version of the above `section` script, for use on systems without awk, but Python
* `slatel` - strip leading and trailing empty lines
* `total_video_duration` - print total run time of given video files (uses `ffprobe` from [FFmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/))
* `vevent_dump` - print a somewhat readable version of the essential informationen inside an iCalendar (.ics) file to STDOUT (best effort only, not even trying to parse the format...)

## Junkcode

If you do not find what you are looking for in this repository, you might
find example code licensed under the GNU Public License version 3 or later
in my [junkcode](https://github.com/auerswal/junkcode/) repository.
